Now we invite you to enjoy a special presentation that highlights the relocation of headquarters
from Brooklyn to Warwick.
We'd like to let you know that the governing body has decided that if the approvals are
received for the Warwick project, we will be moving completely out of Brooklyn.
The World Headquarters will be relocated at Warwick.
Jehovah is telling us, through the governing body, it's time to move out of Brooklyn.
The governing body, these brothers, as soon as they see Jehovah's direction, they just
move.
It doesn't matter if it's long-held, cherished ideas, this is the way it has to be done.
As soon as they see Jehovah's direction, it's done.
Jehovah had everything control.
He just kept nudging in perfect humans.
He knew where he wanted us and then we end up where we're supposed to be.
In the world, actually, they can accomplish projects quickly.
They basically say, time is of the essence and they mean it.
Cost has to be almost not a consideration.
People are not a consideration.
Jehovah's organization is different.
What made Warwick project different than all the others and Jehovah knew is the fact
that he realized that we needed constant spiritual food.
We would arrive on our buses, arrive in our vans, and we would go to morning worship.
The spirituality of the family really made this a theocratic project that stood out
in the minds of many.
The outside contractors there, they noticed that we were putting spiritual things before
physical things and they commented on that, while we arrive and get right to work, you
arrive and you worship your God.
The branch committee contacted four of us to set up a team to do the move out from Brooklyn
to Warwick.
Now it became the reality of a completely clearing out and I mean, that's everything.
That was a pretty daunting thing because when people want to buy your properties, they
want to take possession right away.
There are six buildings that are connected through tunnels underground and so if a buyer
is not interested in purchasing multiple buildings, the sale of the properties are going
to disconnect those tunnels.
New York City law requires we fill those up with concrete.
We didn't anticipate that.
Once we fill those tunnels, that cuts off the utilities to the rest of the buildings.
So how do you heat the other buildings?
How do you keep their electricity, the communication going?
When can you shut it off?
When will the people be moving?
Those are all the logistics that came into question and that we had to work through.
When we look at the work, it's like an iceberg, 16 properties damped, 1.6 million square
feet, over 2,000 individuals to get moved out in 13 months.
Take that and look at 70 departments and you start to get a picture of the growth of the
job already expanded.
If you shut down this service to the Bethel family because you're moving that department,
you still have maybe 1,500 to 1,200 people relying on that type of service so now you put
in a temporary service.
But if you locate it in the wrong location, well now that can hinder the operation of
the move out so you have to know where to put it so your job just grows again.
The process starts many months even more than a year previous as you identify who from
departments are coming.
You realize that in this department is perhaps a husband, but in the southern department
is a wife and they're scheduled for two different times so now how do you make that work?
Do we have the support system in place in order to handle both of those assignments at
the same time?
Those logistics are all part of the process that we had to go through at the same time.
You're planning for two things, not one or sometimes even three because at the same time
when we were ramping up the movement into Warwick, the construction family was leaving.
So all that was part of it.
Then it was just a matter of making sure that we could schedule all the moves in the necessary
time.
The other side, once you start moving out of Brooklyn, once we began the move out of Brooklyn
and every building that got sold, someone had to go in and clean the place, everything
has to be cleared out.
So the collaboration between departments has been really nice to see.
When we would come in and start to speak with groups, they're 100% cooperative.
Then they want to know how can they help, what can they do?
Are there other areas that they could help out other departments?
So it was not a, this is my department and I'm going to protect everything.
It is more, this is the arrangement.
How can we help out?
A move that size, we couldn't do it on our own.
So we had a help of the furniture moving department, brothers, even at the other sides in
Patterson and Wallkill in those libraries that helped us to pack and somehow to extract
books that we needed in our main library.
As we have, I would say, some 65,000 books at least counting.
The main repository, really, for research are our books' writers.
They have to work.
They can't just say, okay, now for two months, I won't do anything.
Thanks to all those moving, they did a wonderful job helping us out without them.
I think we still would be in Brooklyn counting out our books.
A lot of things going to moving, the broadcasting department, even in just the studio, the number
of departments that have assisted in some way is staggering and really there's no other
way it could have gotten done without the help of all those different brothers and sisters.
We got contacted by the Brooklyn Heights Association.
They wanted to know how is this move going to happen.
Brooklyn is very complicated.
There's traffic everywhere, people crossing a sidewalk, trying to get around buses, construction
right behind the office building here.
So they were very appreciative of how we had it organized, how we'd already communicated
with the police on what we were doing, and how we were going to handle it.
So it was sort of an unexpected, but we saw Jehovah's Blessing in that activity as well.
The older ones in Bethel were the ones who set the pace for us.
The things we learned from them, they're work ethic, they're broad view of the worldwide
field.
It, to me, is what our organization is about.
And so for me, it's extremely gratifying to be able to help.
They nervous yes, but really they are faithful and want to work along with Jehovah's
organization, so they've been very cooperative.
When you have a lot of people helping you, you can't go wrong.
They know me like the back of their hands.
But we've laughed about it, and we're all happy.
And they're providing us a lot of assistance in whatever we're doing, and I love them
for that.
It's encouraging to see those ones do that, set some nice example for the rest of us.
So some have asked me the question, what was the difference between warwick and all the
other construction projects that you did under the U.S. branch?
This one was a little unique.
There was a need for great communication, not good communication, great communication.
We had to trust our brothers and sisters.
Implicit trust, we had to yield to other departments.
I think it's only been a training ground, really, for Jesus Christ, to use it, to teach
people, and to teach us skills that we're going to use for an eternity.
I think it has made a great impression on all those who have had the privilege of working
on it.
Most of the Bethel family makes the move out of Brooklyn, and begins to inhabit warwick.
That's when you're going to see some significant changes.
I am looking forward to the effect that it has on the brotherhood.
Everywhere we go around the world, that's one of the first questions people ask is how
is warwick?
We're planning to come to warwick.
We want to come see it.
And when they come and they see the beautiful surroundings, when they see what is there
of the museum that will be there, it is really going to touch many people.
As we look to the future, we have no idea, but we know that Jehovah has amazing things
in store.
When you see an organization like this, come together to accomplish a common goal.
You know it can only be done by Jehovah.
It touches your heart, it touches your faith, it helps you to really see that, yes, Jehovah
is running this organization, and his earthly part of the organization is amazing.
When we think about this first morning worship from our beautiful new headquarters, the
governing body thought it would be appropriate to provide an open letter to thank all who
have shared the hard work that went into this project, how we appreciate it.
But permit me, please, to read this open letter from the governing body.
Dear brothers, on behalf of the warwick Bethel family, the governing body would like to
express deep appreciation for our lovely new home here at Warwick Bethel.
How we love our new residences and offices, the fresh air, quiet environment, and beautiful
scenery are already having a beneficial effect on how we feel.
We are a covenant that now with Jehovah's blessing and help, we will be able to work
even harder and accomplish even more in behalf of kingdom and trists.
Even though we do not deserve such a wonderful place to live and work, we truly appreciate
this generous expression of Jehovah's undeserved kindness, 1 Peter 4, 10.
We are most grateful to Jehovah for the more than 27,000 different brothers and sisters
who volunteered to work on the construction of this project.
Many of you dear friends took vacation time, paid your own transportation costs, lived
in small rooms, and got up very early in the morning to ride buses or shuttles to the
work site.
Then, you worked tirelessly in all kinds of weather, putting your heart into supporting
this Theocratic Building project.
Many of you accepted multiple invitations to work here.
Unquestionably, Jehovah loves you very much for what you have done.
Please be assured that the governing body loves you very much too.
To borrow Paul's words to the Thessalonians, you have become so beloved to us, 1 Thessalonians
to 8.
In addition to those who shared in the actual construction work, countless other dear
brothers and sisters supported this project from afar, self-sacrificing wives back their
husbands' participation.
Diligent remote workers lent a hand.
Generous publishers assisted financially and other loyal ones encouraged and provided
practical help to those who were able to work at the Warwick site.
Being on those who helped from far away reminds us of 1 Samuel 3024.
God's Word tells us that the ones who stayed behind with a baggage received the same share
as the ones who went into battle.
Even though we do not personally know the vast majority of you brothers and sisters who
have supported this project, for a certainty, Jehovah knows each and every one of you.
As Hebrews 610 assures, God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you
showed for His name by ministering to the holy ones.
Jehovah expects us to give Him our best.
That is why He found Cain's sacrifice displeasing.
He knew that Cain could have done better.
Genesis 4.5
But like Abel, you dear friends of given Jehovah your best, we are confident that you will
continue to show your wholehearted love for Jehovah in harmony with your circumstances.
Genesis 4.4, Matthew 22, 37
Additionally, the governing body would like to thank from the bottom of our heart the
five brothers who served on the Warwick Construction Project Committee for their inexhaustible
labors of love.
We also want to thank profusely the many Bethelites who work shoulder to shoulder with us in connection
with this massive theocratic endeavor.
Zephaniah 39
Included are the brothers on the United States Branch Committee and the hard working brothers
and sisters in the furniture moving department, the maintenance department, the computer department,
the broadcasting department, the transportation department, and the Bethel office who are still
carrying out the gigantic task of moving the Bethel family from Brooklyn to Warwick.
We would certainly be remiss if we failed to thank also the thousands upon thousands of
devoted brothers and sisters who labored on the project at Warkill.
That too was a massive undertaking.
Please, Jehovah bless the willing spirit that you dear ones have shown.
In the Bible, sometimes the thought is repeated three times for emphasis.
In this vein, we say, thank you, thank you, thank you to all who have helped us and are
continuing to help us bring this wonderful theocratic project at headquarters to completion.
May Jehovah reward you for what you have done and may there be a perfect wage for you
from Jehovah, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to seek refuge.
You too, twelve.
We express our warm love and affection for all of you, your brothers governing body of
Jehovah's Witnesses.